# Getting started
I have been running for as long as I can remember. I didn't remember the feeling of starting from scratch, until my first big injury. I couldn't run at all for months. When I finally got the all clear, it was like I had never run, and I was starting from the couch. And it _sucked_. It suddenly dawned on me that this is what other people felt when they started running! This is why everyone else seems to complain about running, and thinks I am crazy for loving it. They don't know that _it gets better_. So, so much better! But starting out is hard. It hurts, it's uncomfortable, it's not fun, why would anyone keep it up?
Well trust me, it's worth it. Just push through a few months of discomfort, and a whole world will open up to you, for the rest of your life. Once you are fit, running feels fantastic. There is a reason why running addicts are literally addicted - because it is awesome.

Some tips to help you get going:
1. Use a structured program like c25k.com/c25k_plan/. Note that this plan is fairly intense, so don't stress if you need to space your sessions out further. You might take longer to get there, but keep it up and you absolutely will. Consistency is key.
2. Do the journey with someone else. Having a training partner, or joining a running group (some have specific courses for people starting out), or convincing someone to join you when they can helps with the motivation a lot.
3. Find a dedicated, regular time. Everyone is busy, nobody has lots of spare time. But find a time that works for you and commit to it. Once you miss a few sessions, it is so easy to become demotivated and give up. But you can't reach that point if you don't miss the first one! Really commit, especially for the first few months when the habit is still forming.
4. Bribe yourself. Get a coffee and / or croissant afterwards. Have a chocolate. Whatever short term bribe you need to get through the start and to the point where you can enjoy running for what it is. The long term exercise benefit once you form the habit will far outweigh any short term sugar based bribery you need to get there.
5. Once you can cover 5kms, look into a local [parkrun](https://www.parkrun.com/). A free (completely free), casual 5km run (or walk) every week - and there are thousands around the globe. It's a great way to start the weekend, and can make a great commitment to a regular running routine.